New45 (#1163)
apache/camel-website: content/blog/2024/03/camel45-whatsnew/index.md

---
title: "Apache Camel 4.5 What's New"
date: 2024-03-29
authors: [davsclaus]
categories: ["Releases"]
preview: Details of what we have done in the Camel 4.5 release.
---

Apache Camel 4.5 has just been [released](/blog/2024/03/RELEASE-4.5.0/).

This release introduces a set of new features and noticeable improvements that we will cover in this blog post.

## Camel Core

When using Kamelets and/or Rest DSL then Camel will now hide their intermediate routes and only show user routes.

> The number of routes that Camel logs on startup is thus only the number of _user_ routes. This avoid to clutter
> up the list of routes in monitoring and management tools as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of routes that Camel logs on startup is thus only the number of _user_ routes. This also avoids cluttering
up the list of routes in monitoring and management tools.
```

## Camel Main

We added the concept of _profile_ to running Camel standalone or via camel-jbang. For example camel-jbang runs in `dev` profile
by default, and `camel-main` would run in `prod` profile by default. 

> Using profiles allows you to have profile-specific _application.properties_ files, such as `application-dev.properties` that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using profiles allows you to have profile-specific _application.properties_ files, such as `application-dev.properties`
```

> Using profiles allows you to have profile specific _application.properties_ files, such as `application-dev.properties` that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using profiles allows you to have profile-specific _application.properties_ files, such as `application-dev.properties` that
```

> that can provide environment specific configuration, for example hostname, username and passwords for connecting to systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that can provide environment-specific configuration, for example hostname, username and passwords for connecting to systems.
```

To make it quick and easy to have settings for development, and then avoid having to remove those when building for UAT or production.

## Camel JBang

> We fixed some issues using Camel JBang with Windows. But we would like more feedback from Windows users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We fixed some issues using Camel JBang with Windows, but we would still like more feedback from Windows users.
```

Added `/q/info` as HTTP console to show some basic information about the Camel application. 

## Camel Catalog

> We now generate more metadata for evert Camel release and have added the following information into `camel-catalog`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now generate more metadata for every Camel release and have added the following information into `camel-catalog`,
```

that can be useful for Camel tooling such as Karavan and Kaoto:

- `dev-consoles` - Provides a list of all available developer consoles
- `transformers` - Provides a list of all cloud event transformers (Camel K pipes)
- `beans` - Provides a list of all miscellaneous beans such as `AggregationRepository`, `IdempotentRepository` and all the options. (For example to know that Camel offers a Redis idempotent repository).

## Camel Micrometer

Added _context_ level metrics as well, so you have combined metrics for the entire Camel application.

> Adjusted the tags in the metrics to be shorter. See the upgrade guide for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adjusted the tags in the metrics to be shorter. See the [upgrade guide](/manual/camel-4x-upgrade-guide-4_5.html) for more details.
```

## OpenAPI v2

Support for OpenAPI v2 (swagger) has been removed. Use OpenAPI v3 spec instead.

## Miscellaneous

> The `camel-spring-rabbitmq` can now automatic bind and create if setting `autoDeclareProducer=true` for the producers as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `camel-spring-rabbitmq` can now automatically bind and create if setting `autoDeclareProducer=true` for the producers as well.
```

Reviewer: The sentence is not clear, I'd suggest revising it.

> The `camel-yaml-dsl` can now set error handler on the route level as well. Previously you must do this via route configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `camel-yaml-dsl` can now set error handler on the route level as well. Previously you had to do this via route configuration.
```

The `camel-kafka` has been upgraded to Kafka Client 3.7.

The documentation has many grammar, typo and cosmetic changes.

> Upgraded many third-party dependencies to the latest release at the time of release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upgraded many third-party dependencies to the latest releases at the time of release.
```
